### Cloud Security Part 1 (2010)

So one interesting thing about cloud security compared to the previous generations of security efforts, let’s say in compared to software security and website security, is that for both the software and website, security was almost a business disabler, which basically means the more features, the more security people added, the less attractive the product would be. And there are very few applications and websites that can actually make the client need more security in order to do more business, which results in the best return on investment. And what’s interesting about cloud security is that it might be one of the times where security is actually a business requirement, because a lack of security would slow down the adoption rate and prevent people from moving into the cloud, which basically means that people will care about it and invest in it. I was thinking about that and I realized that the problem with cloud security, or let’s say security vulnerabilities in the cloud, is that the compromise doesn’t just affect one company -- it affects all companies that are hosted there. This means that it’s a much, much bigger problem and, you know, where vulnerability or security incidents traditionally result in one company being affected and the people in that company all trying to solve the problem until it’s resolved, here, the companies affected or the assets affected are not under the control of their owners. And the people hosting them now have to manage all these external people who don’t have any control over their data and who can’t work because their service is down or it’s compromised, etc. That means that you have a much more horizontal kind of problem because you have not just, from Company A, let’s say, afac factor or Company A-driven attack affecting Company B, C, D, E, F, all the way to X, Y, Z. So it’s a much tougher problem to deal with. And the point here is that while catastrophic failures are acceptable or are tolerated, should I say, in normal websites and applications, cloud-based worlds are much less tolerant, because literally a catastrophic failure, one where everything fails or the whole data is compromised or removed, is potentially the loss of that business. And that hasn’t happened, but surely it will happen. And in some ways, companies will then have to show that they care more about security than the people who own that data.

### Cloud Security Part 2 (2010)

One of the concepts that Bruce Schneier talked about on this conference on the OWASP IBWAS conference in Spain is that a cloud or a service actually cares more about the security of their customers than the customer itself.

They should care more about security than the customers, because their loss there is potentially massive

That is a very good concept.

And I think in future it’s all going to be about companies being able to show that they do care more about their customers’ data and the customer information and the customer itself and basically being able to say “Look, I have better systems than you have in place, so you better trust me with your data because I’ll be able to manage more data for you than you are able to.” And what that really means is that it will be akin to regulatory compliance that some of this stuff is actually handled on the outside world because they’re able to control it better. So in some ways, you can see a credit card company doing that. But you can also see doing it in the medical industry or any kind of industry involving personal or relevant information; you can see it moving into that world where they say “Look, you can’t handle that, or if you handle it you have to have this type of insurance.” So you basically need to have this type of service, which you don’t have, so you better outsource that, but to do that we actually need a lot more visibility. We’ll need a lot more maturity in our industry, because companies actually need to be able to show that they have that kind of control. It’s not just that they are compliant by somebody who just basically go for the lowest beater and then pays and tells them they’re compliant. And I reckon that the only way we’re going to achieve that is by genuinely enhanced visibility into what’s going on so that people can actually measure what’s happening and then make the big, real decisions based on it. And in some ways, the proof of the pudding is going to be not how many vulnerabilities they have, but how they recover from incidents. Because in some ways, that’s the best good measure. The better a company is able to sustain attack is actually the better the company protects data, right? A company who says “I received x, y, z number of attacks and I was able to sustain them and protect them this way” is essentially a company that is more trustworthy than the company that is completely opaque. And I think that’s in some ways the key to making this work is to create either technology or standards of process that actually increase the visibility into what is going on.
