### Bono’s Comments on the Music Industry

I think it was in Time Magazine or a New York Times article, Bono wrote about his wish list or predictions for 2010 in which he makes a claim that the lack of copyright protection mainly damages the little guys, where the big guys like him actually get protected. And I don’t really buy that argument, because I think the little guys have always been screwed by the music industry, which basically tries to exploit them as much as they can until they get big enough that they can actually get contracts, like Bono has. And in fact the music industry used to be so bad that I found out in the 80s, some of the contracts were considered to be unenforceable. When the judge actually looked at that things, he said “there’s no way you guys can do this.” So I don’t think the music industry has any credibility in claim to say that the privacy and the lack of copyright protection on music actually damages the little guys, and basically I think that’s still yet… to be proven a fact. It’ll be interesting to see them improve on that. I actually think the little guys can now be much more proactive and dynamic about the stuff they do. I actually remember reading an article ages ago, I think it was in the early 2000s, about how the real way to sell music online is if it's the easiest way to sell and buy music for the little one, and in some ways, that’s what iTunes did. iTunes basically realized that the price was reasonably decent and basically brought music, the little music, to the masses. What I still think the music industry has failed to capitalize on is the fact that as musicians or the music products they sell, they only sell one or two items I will buy a year, while in reality, for bands I like, I’ll spend a lot more money with them but they still are not able to sell those things to me. They are only able to sell me an album, which I’ll buy because I like the bands, and I like the previous ones. But they need to be much more sharp and sell me a lot more stuff, which in some ways is what the Guitar Hero guys did, because they were able to leverage a lot more revenue streams from those music.
