## Created in 2010

### Application Security Testing

_"there’s a lot of talks about how application security testing, you know, if it’s a static analysis or dynamic analysis and how all that stuff works and the reality is that to know that there’s properly an application on a website or system, you actually need both. You need static analysis to tell you how the app works and then you need dynamic analysis to figure out how it actually works and also to test and make sure the issues are exploitable and you actually have a problem with it. So in some ways, what you really need is a way to leverage the best of both worlds, either have tools that provide both environments or be able to consume each tool that provides each piece of the equation because it’s a very complicated world. You know, and basically there’s completely different skills required around doing that. So what I really want is to be able to merge those two worlds and to treat them as one and really perform security analysis using those technologies."_

 - the key here is to mention the need to have multiple tools running on the code
 - mention IAST and RAST
 - mention DHS project that runs multiple scanners on same codebase and consolidates reports
 - mention ThreadFix (https://github.com/denimgroup/threadfix) and its capabilities to load multiple tools results and consolidate findings


### Cloud Security Part 1

This is a blog post on cloud security. So one interesting thing about cloud security to compare to the previous generations of security efforts, let’s say in compared to software security and website security is that for both the software and website, security was almost a business disabler, which basically means the more features, the more security people added, the less attractive the product would be. And there are very few applications and websites that actually can make the client need more security in order to do more business, which basically is the best place where have a clean return of investment. And what’s interesting about cloud security is that cloud security might actually be one the times where security is actually a business requirement, because a lack of security would actually slow down the adoption rate and would actually prevent people from moving into the cloud, which basically means that people will care about it and basically means people will invest on it. And I was thinking about that and I kind of realized that the problem with cloud security, or let’s say security vulnerabilities in the cloud, is that the compromise doesn’t just affect one company. So the compromise affects all companies that are hosted there, which basically means that it’s a much, much bigger problem and much more a can of worms because, you know, while in tradition, vulnerabilities incidents or security incidents, it’s one company that’s affected and the people in that company are all trying to solve the problem until it’s resolved. Here, the companies affected or the assets affected are not basically under the control of their owners. And the people hosting them basically now have to manage all these external people who don’t have any control over their data and who can’t work because their service is down or it’s compromised, etc. And basically that means that you have a much more horizontal kind of problem because you have not just, from Company A, let’s say, afac factor or Company A-driven attack affecting Company B, C, D, E, F, all the way, you know, X, Y, Z. So it’s a much tougher problem to deal with because it’s a much tougher wide companies affected. And the point here is that while catastrophic failures are acceptable or are tolerated, should I say, in normal websites and applications, cloud-based worlds are much less tolerated, because literally a catastrophic failure, one where everything fails or the whole data is compromised or the whole data is removed, is potentially the loss of that business. And that hasn’t happened, but surely it will happen. And in some ways, companies will then have to show that they care more about security than the people who own that data.


### Cloud Security Part 2

Here’s another blog post on cloud security. So one of the concepts that Bruce Schneier and I talk about on this conference on the IBWASS, basically West conference in Spain where he did a keynote was that, in some ways, when you think about from a cloud or a service provider point of view, they actually care more about the security of their customers than the customer itself. Or, put it this way, theoretically they should care more about security than the customers because a potential loss there is actually going to be a problem. So in some ways, that is a very good concept if it’s true. And I think in future it’s all going to be about companies being able to show that they do care more about their customers’ data and the customer information and the customer itself and basically being able to say “Look, this is all a mess, but I have better systems than you have in place, so you better trust me your data because I’ll be able to manage more data for you than you are able to.” And basically what it means is that it will be almost in some ways regulatory compliance that some of this stuff is actually handled on the outside world because they’re able to control it better. So in some ways, you can see a credit card company doing that. But you can also see doing it in the medical industry or any kind of personal information or relevant information, you can see it moving into that world where they say “look, you can’t handle that, or if you handle it you have to have this type of insurance.” So you basically need to have this type of services, which you don’t have, so you better outsource that, but to do that we actually need a lot more visibility. We’ll need a lot more maturity in our industry, because companies actually need to be able to show that they have that kind of control. It’s not just that they are compliant by somebody who just basically go for the lowest beater and then pays and tells them they’re compliant. And I reckon that the only way we’re going to achieve that is by really, really enhanced visibility into what’s going on so that people can actually measure what’s happening and then make the big, real decisions based on this. And in some ways, the proof of the pudding is going to be not how many vulnerabilities they have, but almost they recover from incidents. Because in some ways, that’s actually a good measure, right? The better a company is able to sustain attack is actually the better the company protects data, right? A company who says “I received x, y, z number of attacks and I was able to sustain them and protect them this way” is basically a company that in some ways is more trustworthy than the company that is completely opaque. And I think that’s in some way the key to make this work is to create, you know, in some ways, either technology or standards of process that actually increase that visibility into what is going on. 
