## FUD Section

FUD is Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt (see Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fear,_uncertainty_and_doubt)

I'm am going to scare you now

...but I'm going to try to be
	 	 	 	 as pragmatic as possible
   ...If anything I'm actually being low-key here
      ...I'm not saying nothing
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 that has not been said before

**Why am I going to scare you?**

- Because there is a general lack of awareness of how bad is the problem
- It works (see USA's actions for the past 10 years)
- If it can be used for government/Corporate agendas, lets see if we can make it use for public health agendas

**Everything is Broken!!!**

- HTTP is broken
- SSL is broken
- DNS is broken (DNS Rebinding, DNS Chache Poinsoning (Dan Kamisky)
- Browsers are broken
- Websites are broken
- Web Development Frameworks are broken
- Sheer number of Microsoft vulnerabilities (see this month's MSRC advisories). -And Microsoft is one of the BEST vendors (they spend a huge amount of money and resources on Application Security)
- Backdoors in 'secure operating systems' (FreeBSD email)

**Its software everywhere**

Most (if not all) of you work in ‘software' companies:
 * Supermarkets,
 * Construction companies
 * Banks,
 * Websites
 * Government bodies,
 * Logistic companies

Your company develops (internally our outsourcing) thousands if not millions of custom lines of code

Your entire life depends on software and more and more these days, on Web Applications

In fact ‘we' are becoming software: my mom's hearing aid and its ‘advanced features' (was there any authentication there?)

**Deaths in WebAppSec**

“How many many people will have to die before we take application security seriously?"

1, 10, 100, 1000, 10000, 100000?

How many Bridges need to fall?

How much money needs to be lost?

What would be the scenario that would case people or governments to act?


...what about the following 20 scenarios?
...which one(s) would be enough?

1. Mass supermarket failure (no food, milk, water available)
2. Bank or Financial Company collapse
3. Fabricated News
4. Mass loss, sale and exploitation of Individuals Private information
5. Mass Identify Theft!
 - Can you prove that YOU are YOU?
 - What if the ‘Computer says differently'?
 - What if your picture ‘in the computer' is different?
 - What if your date-of-birth are family name are different?
 - What if you are shown as DEAD in the system? (how many databases would it take to kill you digitally)
 - What if there is NO record at ALL that you ever existed?
    - in ID database
    - in Financial database
    - in Hospital databases
    - etc...?
6. Medical systems exploitation:
 - Wrong medicaments delivered, sold
 - Manipulating hospital systems
 - Corruption of medial records
 - Sale of medial records
7. Car/Plane/Train crashes:
 - all lights are made green at the same time
 - maintenance records are fiddled or manipulated (Fake parts scam)
 - Remote control and manipulation
 - Manipulation of traffic guidance systems
8. ID cards/Passport exploits
 - Government loses ability to issue new ID cards
 - Massive ID Card fraud
 - Companies are selling Fake ID carts with no ability to stop them
9. No Cashpoints
10. New laws introduced in parliament (without formal discussion/approval)
11. Fighter jet fires missile into crowd / building / city
12. Mass hysteria at stadium, where a big message on screen says:
 - "...RUN!!!!!! The stadium is going to blow in 2 minutes..."
 - "...There is a terrorist in the stadium, here is his picture! Find him and kill him!!..."
13. Water poisoning
14. Manipulation of controls that introduce or remove chemicals in water
15. Attacks on electric grid
16. Mass compromise of online email systems
17. Corruption of Inland Revenue database (if they did not know who owed
what and they could not be able to collect money from taxes)
18. Government attacks
 - Paralysis of public bodies (‘IT systems are not working)
 - Mass deletion of Government Emails and documents
 - Creation of fake Government Emails or documents
19. Websites massively attack users and users are afraid to go online
20. Localized or global Internet shutdowns


Unfortunately the previous examples are not that hard to technically execute...
  - ... once the base systems are running on software
  - ... and the data is stored in databases
	- ... or word documents sitting on a server
