**Email I'm Not Communication Medium**

Emails are conversations, they are not official communication mediums. In companies, there is a huge amount of information and decisions that is only communicated using emails especially to do with risks, especially to do with things that need to do, non functional requirements, re-factoring, those things tend to only exist on some emails, email thread or some document in the middle of nowhere. And that is not good enough basically email is just noise, it is just a medium, it is just you know these days once the thing goes into an email you barely can find it, you think of it as a black belt.

So, if it isn't on the wiki page, if it is not on a virtual control system, it basically doesn't exist. And especially when we talk about security risks, you can't have those in an email, it is not good enough to say, "oh by the way X manager here is something I am worried about". You have to create a ticket and send it to him so that you track the situation, you track the information, you track what is going on, you track the responses, and also people move on. You know people what is the idea of having somebody that suddenly have all this knowledge in their head on the email box then what happens when they leave?

So, basically it really should be understood that emails are not communication mediums, they are just a nice chat, they are not a way to communicate official information. They are not a way to tell somebody that something is happening, you have to basically put that in a place that the way I look at it, it has to be hyper linked. The hyper linker ability of a piece of information is key because once it is hyper linked location, others can find, you can point others to it, others know how to find it, there is a track record about it, so the way I look at it is if that information is not available on the link, it doesn't exist.