## Why this book

This is a book about the lack of software quality that we have in our current technological world, and how Application Security can help to fix it.

We live in a society that is more and more dependent on software, but the quality and resilience of that software is nowhere good enough for the reliance that we are putting in that software.

For a while, the software impact in the 'real world' was quite limited, and the failures of software were contained in smallish circles(these software failures might have financial or even deadly damage, but their impact to society was limited). But as software continues its virtuous cycle of continuous improvement, complexity and connectivity, we are reaching a point where the current lack of control and lack of quality is causing significant damage in the 'real world'.

Information Security and Application Security (AppSec) live in an interesting world where by design it pushes the boundaries of what software can do. AppSec acts like a 'malicious murphy', who is intelligent and is able to inflict targeted and intelligent damage. What this means is that AppSec is looking at the future of software problems, since by design just about all issues/vulnerabilities discovered, detected or mitigated, are created by software.

The risk of these issues, for a while, was mostly theoretical. Yes we (AppSec professionals) could exploit a particular application, we could access all customer data, we could destroy data, even compromise entire data centers (i.e. companies). And although they produced impressive demos, and the more spectacular vulnerabilities would always get fixed, the reality is that the probability of those vulnerabilities being exploited, was (until recently) very remote. 

Also important is the reality that software has no liability, no (real) standards, no quality measurements, no labels and limited requirements to inform customers of reality. This is why most companies ignored the problem. Why deal with software security when it is really not causing any damage and there is no business impact for not doing security?

Of course until some companies would eventually have a security incident, and for a short period of time software security would be on the agenda, and changes would be made. The usual pattern was to hire an Information Security team, deal with the big issues and then go back to business as usual.

The problem is that we kept missing the real questions and root causes:

- How was that vulnerability created?
- Why wasn't it detected?
- Why was the impact so high?
- Given a more focused attacker, would the impact be much higher?
- What kind of development environment creates issues like that?
- How many more issues like that do we have?
- How can we prevent its creation in the future?
- Do we have a software quality problem?

Although the real root cause of software security incidents is software (and ultimately its quality), for a long time, just about all players in the industry (from makers, to clients, to users), were happy with the wack-a-mole and patch approach. Since the number of incidents were statistically low and the real impact of security incidents was low, it can be said that for a while this approach worked.

The reason it worked was because most attacks were ideological, accidents or done 'just for fun'. Until recently the number of criminally-focused attacks were low, with a majority of those attacks done by inexperienced attackers (which is some of them got caught). But what we have seen recently is a massive evolution in the professionalism of attackers (which includes nation-states), and we are not dealing with amateurs anymore. The current generation of criminals are running well-oiled operations with world-class management and software teams.

Basically we are creating the perfect storm:

- software becoming more and more important to our society,
- most companies becoming software companies,
- entire industries and jobs being radically transformed by the power of software,
- increased numbers of professional attackers
- large number of assets (money and data) only existing in digital format
- no oversight, control and enforcement of Software Quality

This storm has already created significant damage, and is only going to get worse. We need to start tacking the root cause of the issue, which is software, namely its lack of quality.

There are many definitions of Software Security, my preferred one is: _"Software security is a measure of its unintended behaviors or consequences"_. The objective of Software security is not to create '100% secure software' (what ever that means). Its objective is to align its consequences with the risk appetite of its users.

What this means is that the less quality an application (or piece of software) has, the most security issues will exist (the main variation being the impact and exploitability of that issue).

Since we can measure software security issues (by finding vulnerabilities or design flaws), we can measure software quality.

Since Software is created by code, the quality of that code matters.

This means that to fix software we need to look at the quality of the code being written.

It is important to understand that the quality, knowledge and craftsmanship of the programmer writing the code is not the most influential factor. The environment and SDL (Software Development Lifecycle) is much more important.

Writing code that is secure is equivalent to creating products that have quality. These activities cannot be bolted or added as afterthoughts. But since it doesn't scale (or even work) to require all developers to be security experts, the solution is to create development environments that create quality (and secure) code by default, and dangerous activities/patterns are easily identified and accessed.

### Other

- I'm making the business case that writing quality and secure software is cheaper, better and faster
- Software is an economic, moral, political, technological, organizational and quality problem
- Application security is a way to measure the size of the problem
- DevOps research on concept that: Quality code is cheaper, more effective and makes developers happier [^2]
- A key objective for me, is that I should be able to deliver a training session course without drawing a diagram from scratch. i.e. I should be using diagrams from this book, since that is happening I have synchronized this book with my ideas about appsec and software quality 


[^2]: from DevOps analysis presented in video (find link to it)
